# SNHU_CS320 Journal

## How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?
Testing is vital to any software project. Just as we follow the SDLC for creating software projects efficiently, it is also common to follow a testing lifecycle (STLC). These lifecycles incorporate different aspects of testing, such as test planning, analysis, monitoring, implementation, execution, and completion. The testing stage is crucial because it is intended to find defects, errors, as well as determine if the software is producing the right result. At a very high level, testing can be divided into two major areas: static and dynamic testing. There are various categories of testing: functional, non-functional, white-box, black-box, regression, and retesting. Furthermore, there are different levels of testing: unit, integration, system, and user acceptance testing. Incorporating all these aspects into a software development project help ensure that our software is functional and secure because they test the software from different perspectives.

## How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?
Requirements are important because they describe what the customers’ needs are, or what the system is supposed to do. These needs are translated into specifications that are used to guide the design of the system. Without requirements, we would not be able to design or implement tests, nor would we know if the system will meet the needs of the customer. The issue is that the customer may not know exactly what they need or may not be able to express what they need. Furthermore, the developers may not fully understand the requirements or may interpret them differently, as there could a communication gap between the customers and developers. Therefore, analysis of requirements and communication among customers and developers are vital to the success of the system. I feel that following an agile approach to software development – a process that evolves and continually improves as the software is developed – is one of the best ways to ensure we are building the correct outcome.

## How do I approach designing software?
Many software projects are designed by following an SDLC type of model. As previously mentioned, there are many benefits to using an iterative, incremental methodology such as an agile approach. It begins with requirements gathering, analyzing the requirements, and a concerted effort to ensure they are as well defined and understood as possible. Closely following that is the planning effort, as well as modelling the system. Modelling is important because it a visual depiction of the system from different angles, and the system can be more easily understood by the business side and development side. Of course, test planning can be accomplished. The team might decide that a test-driven development would work best, for example. In any case, test planning, implementation, and execution would be accomplished throughout the development lifecycle, like an approach like the V-Model.
Automation is another major consideration, especially pertaining to testing. There are lot of repetitive and mundane tasks associated with testing. It is highly beneficial to using automation tools for these types of tasks so that testers and developers can focus on more important aspects of the project. Automation saves an incredible amount time. Furthermore, there are tests that would require an immense of time and effort to build, whereas automation tools would be effective and more efficient at performing the test. Software security is an example of this because user input can be “fuzzy” and unpredictable, and automation tools can be used for penetration and injection testing that would be unrealistic or too time consuming to perform by an internal team of testers.


